# Greener

**Product Overview**

A B2B marketplace for businesses to order green raw material for food packaging. The manufacturers of green raw material will get a forum to sell their products. The buyers can leverage all sellers in one place, get packaging material with lower carbon footprint and sell that as a value proposition to their respective customers.

**Long Description**

**What is the Problem?**
Every year ~78 million metric ton of plastic packaging is produced globally [1]. 40% of demand for plastic is generated by single use plastic[2]. These include water bottles, cold beverage cups, lids, straws etc.
As per the US environmental protection agency (EPA), almost half of the municipal solid waste consists of food and food packaging [3].

**End Consumer Demand**
With increasing consumer awareness and regulations, the demand for green packaging is steadily increasing. As per a BCG Survey, more than half the respondents indicated their preference for green products. Many of these respondents were also willing to pay extra for these products [4].

**Position of the Industry**
Almost all the top FMCG companies have already declared a commitment towards sustainability. 40% of these commitments are towards reducing total packaging use and innovating in the area of packaging [5].

**Need-Gaps**
While there is a willingness to work towards sustainable packaging, there is often a lack of awareness on where to start and how to leverage the benefits of green packaging. 
Few low hanging fruits suggested in the McKinsey report are as below [5]:
  1. Lightweight packaging
  2. Substitute with greener material
  3. Develop more recyclable packaging products
  4. Better communication of the sustainability narrative


